hi everyone welcome to the
ipfs core representations weekly sync
for monday the 26th of october 2020
i am a king brain i will be your host
we're going to play the game of
what we've done what we're brought by
what we're doing next we're going to go
through our high priority initiatives
our um slightly lower priority
initiatives
and then design review parking lot q a
all that we're going to have a great
time uh it's going to be amazing
probably the best one ever uh without
further ado
let's get started with the high priority
initiative so
upcoming and shipped releases um i can
talk about changes
quickly that is going to ship soon uh we
got the
types in at the end of last week thanks
to some heroic efforts from
iraqi uh which is very much appreciated
uh
so that's going to go out uh you know
very soon as long as no one
tells me that the types aren't working
so i'm just trying to clear up some
uh sort of you know low hanging fruit
bug fixes and that kind of thing
uh before we release that tomorrow or
maybe wednesday worst case
um it's going to include the removal of
seco
so that's a thing that people should be
aware of uh and also
uh like lots of small fixes trying to
like
bring so that's kind of fallen out of
the of the types work is
the a lot of the apis aren't aligned
between the http client and the core and
they're supposed to be
so some of those uh apis are now more
aligned than they were before
um which hopefully will reduce confusion
they may trip some people up please do
read the release notes it's going to be
very important anyway that's it
who else can talk about upcoming
releases
there will probably be an ipget release
this week
uh yeah go ip5.8
uh still some things that need to get
done we
last last week uh not a lot happened on
that front
between uh people being people being out
of town
and uh and just other things coming up
but uh we are we are post
most of our ci hell and so
uh should be should be getting a move on
i have some updates for ipget that are
not
posted as prs yet so if there's anything
any features run again
uh before that release let me know or if
if the features already been decided
then we can always
put them in next time
um and quick shout out that uh ipfs
desktop
0.13 uh shipped some time ago
with like in the past two weeks
and it's shipped with go ipfs 0.7
so that's that
it's sweet when i'm watching because we
didn't have
a catch-up last week so that is why that
is a notable release
for this uh sketchup uh cool moving on
uh the pinning services
yes so um as far as the pinning services
are going uh
i uh the implementation is essentially
complete
and i want to have a review of that
before printing that uh
today if everything looks good and
um that will uh put the pinning services
uh
in a much better place as far as
performance is concerned by backing
with our data store um so the changes
there
uh should there aren't gonna be any
breaking api changes
like that they should be invisible
things should just work faster
and let put some of the groundwork down
for
uh api changes that will be up and
coming to be
in sync with the remote pending api so
that's on track for
all that getting done uh this weekend
being part of the
uh the upcoming release
yeah we also relates i don't remember if
i post it in here
or not um last last week
but yeah we had some really productive
discussions
trying to align the uh what we want the
new
sort of local pinning api to look like
with the remote pinning api
and so they'll be basically the same
um and lytle linked in there
uh some small changes to the
remote api ah yes yes one thing that
came out of that
was uh the defaults the default
search uh by name was
uh case insensitive uh
contains so like you know
star word star effectively
um is what you were looking for and
that's like an expensive operation to
run
especially as the default so
we would like to change the defaults so
that it is a fast exact match
something that you can do on an indexed
thing in like 001
uh and that would also make it really
nice to use with your local data store
that might have like you know
a crazy number of pins so
that that pr is up there if you have uh
any thoughts
but uh i think you know uh learning from
from some of our lessons of things like
ipfs pin ls
and having the defaults be the fast
thing and
letting people opt in to the more
information
slower one i think is the smarter move
[Music]
also once we land some of this the uh
go ipfs prs with some testing there will
be some examples out there
for if people want to test their client
against a remote service they can sort
of see
what is that we're doing which is just
sort of spin up a docker container with
uh andrew's um pinning service server
and then just like run some queries
again run some http queries against it
and like see how everything goes
do we actually have any published
benchmarks already that we can
present it against uh for the local
stuff
uh alex um are there scripts that you
used when you collected your benchmarks
uh yeah so in the issue on jsonpfs i put
the scripts up that i was using there
but they're just ad hoc things
i can test well i'm just wondering if
they're like
shell scripts that we could run against
go ipfs or if they're specific
okay yeah there's an art javascript test
that you can just flip
the daemon controller to the different
implementations
and it'll kick out like csv formatting
data
you can just draw a graph
and alex has already collected some data
points that are in a graph
somewhere about how slow go ipfs is
currently
so okay that would yeah i'd like to
like to be able to show that against
that same graph and be able to see
there's also the benchmark issue that
matt ober added to
go ipfs repo um where he did
some analysis against badger so it would
be worth once we get like
a branch or something of that pinging
him and maybe he could run his his
benchmarks against it to validate did
that kind of yeah
or just the data store performance in
general it was just pin
pin modifications oh okay then that
would be perfect
yeah i spoke with him about that he's
he's good once we have something
to to test all right
cool uh next up from the list is sekai
removal so
um i talked about jcpf that's going to
be going well it's going to be removed
in the next release which is going to
land imminently
uh next up is just improved
discoverability and connectivity
that's cool one thing about uh second
removal jacob
what is there an update on when we uh
are going to just turn things off for
people
for a little bit yeah let's let's sync
up this week
uh we have some potential like time on
changes on
some stuff but we'll sync up and i think
we should be able to reasonably shut
some stuff off
soon so what we can touch base offline
okay so in the improve discoverability
and discovery and connectivity in js
i was out last week so there was not
that much progress
but in the outer relay front uh i have
only one pr pending which is the custom
announce filter
to filter out the to provide the users
the ability to filter out
addresses that they don't want to
announce uh it's mostly then i just need
to add tests so
it should be done probably today uh
in the rendezvous part uh i'm mostly
blocked now
on the discovery api and random
implementation appears
and i will probably start creating a
rendezvous example
in the meantime and that will be that
this for this week
along the lines of json pdp uh just fyi
we
did release a patch last week that fixes
like
leaking streams that weren't closing
properly um
so that that's patched and then there's
some work to improve the interfaces
there
that i've started but that will likely
won't land until maybe
next week or something that hopefully we
can ship with um
po30
cool that is it for the end of the
high priority initiatives so moving on
to the other initiatives
uh improving web ui file ad
not much update on there it's being kind
of
behind the types and typescript stuff so
hopefully this week
um but pr's are there um
next one is also mine but alex already
talked about it typescript
stuff uh it's landed yeah thanks alex
for
tag teaming this through uh we'll
probably be adding more stuff over time
because it doesn't quite cover
everything but
it was good to actually learn something
and then improve things in the tree
i think we're mostly just uh waiting on
the badger folks to come up with a
release and then
decide whether a breaking change that
they made
is going to happen transparently
or whether we're going to just be
skipping straight to badger 3.
uh andrew as have they updated anything
about that
or not yet no i've i've been checking
and they haven't unless they post that
just just before this meeting uh
they have not yet made a release yet and
so yeah like you said um
they introduced some breaking changes
but their rule which they have been
following
quite well is that if they break break
it then they'll do another
major release at this point so yeah we
don't know if we'll go to badger 2 or
badgers
badger 3 to get these features
so um i can i can ping them and see if i
can get a um
ata on that but i suspect that they
don't really have one at this point
yeah i think they've i mean i last i
checked they were supposed to be they
were doing like time-based releases
like every so often but but maybe for
something bigger where there's a
breaking change they
they change the they change the rules
around
well what's our deadline on on on this
i mean if it's if it's ready before the
rc is ready to go out then it makes it
in and if it's not then it makes it into
the next one
right that's simple
cool uh next up dns adder resolving in
jazz
yeah the the three pr's uh for multi
others may have empty and liquids b are
ready for review i just addressed the
review of the mifmt
earlier today and i just need to test
the
michael's pr that updates the examples
to use the new dns
other multi-others and check if
everything is now working as expected so
i hope that we will get this done this
week
rad um that brings us to the end of the
uh other initiatives uh so now moving on
to the other stuff so
uh design review proposals anything that
you would like to have a design review
about
no cool is anyone blocked or does
anybody have an
ask
um i got the question regarding the uh
rendezvous and discovery api
um are those uh
like are those like a prs with uh
the documentation or is it at the level
of
just just implementation codes uh
the rendezvous it's a it's the pr with
implementation in the lipitp rendezvous
module the discovery api is an issue
where there is a proposal where
basically the goal is to use the
rendezvous and the content routing and
eventually other modules in the future
for this discovery of services
and so it's basically an issue i can
send the link to you
uh where is it my proposal and now we
should do it
yeah yeah if you could like
put in a note yeah thanks
has anybody got any questions
cool okay so then the parking lot
anything doesn't fit anywhere else
um i just put items there so we do have
a bunch of places in js ipfs where we
say
there's the interface for say repo and
you can provide implementation
but pretty much there's a js ipfs repo
implementation and similar stuff for
bitswap and there are some interface
definitions and markdown files that
potentially others could implement so
what i would like to do is actually have
a interface definitions in typescript
for those things
and then make sure that our code is
against the interface definition
versus actual implementation so others
can actually do implement them
and do validate the implementations by
running a type checker if they want to
along with the test if they do there's
already a bunch of places where we sort
of
do use internals that are not part of
the interface definitions
so i think this would help us to be more
honest about
what we using and what we want interface
to be
and now that we have types in places
it's actually very easy to
do that and ensure that we do the right
thing there
um i think
like a good place to start for that
might be something like the data store
because we have um
headline interface data storage defines
a suite of
acceptance tests fundamentally that
verifies that the implementation
is a data store um and adding types to
that would be like
a logical extension because then if
that's a
like if that pans out and that works
then we can totally replicate that pan
in other things okay uh so
are you saying we should add it to there
or have a separate ripple i was sort of
thing is that having the interface as a
separate thing so you don't have to pull
in other dependencies would be
useful on its own but maybe that's a
better place to do it
but all the implementations of the data
store would
depend on the interface uh to run these
sentence test
so they already defend them
okay sounds good
um
all right uh i guess that's it that's
the end of the parking lot
uh please fill in your weekly updates
uh it's lovely to know what everyone's
been doing um
this has been the core foundations
weekly sync from monday the 26th of
october
it's been amazing i told you it's gonna
be really good thank you very much
see you all next week bye thank you
bye